# Summary of Methodologies Used

Compensation can be in different forms and can be disbursed in different ways.  Perkolator aims to normalize this assortment of dissimilar forms compensation to allow the user to discern interdependencies as will as aggregated totals in order to enable candidates to make informed and reasoned counteroffers.

The following methodology and classification system is used by Perkolator to convert and aggregate offer terms.

## First Principles: Employment Contract
The first principle of any employment contract is the observation of the following economic principle of exchange:
```
valueOfEmployerCompensation = valueOfEmployeeOutput
```

So let’s break it down.
## employeeCompensation
Employer compensation can be considered anything that retains value over time.  In economic contract terms, these units fall under one of two classification types.

Directional flow of consideration :  Company   =>   Employee

## compTypes :
*cash*   =>   any established fiat currency (USD, Euro, RMB, etc)
  Perkolator uses the term {cash} to refer to compensation of this type.

*in-kind*   =>   a catch-all category for everything non-cash
  Perkolator breaks down the *in-kind* category further into:

  {equity}  =>  payments made in the form of company-based securities such as  stock options *options* and restricted stock units *RSUs*

  {perks}  =>  a catch-all category for any *non-equity* *in-kind* compensation such as benefits, stipends, savings account contributions.


## paymentBasis
*upFront*  =>   payments due upon execution (initialization) of the employment contract
*rateBased*   =>  payment amounts determined by a time-based driver  (e.g. bi-weekly paycheck)
*eventBased*   =>  payment amounts determined by  an event-based driver (e.g. hitting incentive target)


## employeeOutput
Employee contribution can be considered the value of the output generated by the employee over the time dedicated to company-related activity.

Directional flow of consideration :      Employee   =>   Company

Formula used to calculated the value of individual contributor’s output:
`f(x) = a(x)(x) + m(x) + b`

where:
x = t = timeAllocated to company work during fiscal period
a = productivity tools & scalable methodologies utilized = work governed by exponential factors
m = manual efforts = work constrained by linear factors
b = prebuilt templates used as the starting point for work product




## compValue & outputValue
As the value of these transferrable compTypes are fundamentally dynamic (meaning its value increases, maintains (no change), or decreases over a time period).

Formula used to calculated the value of compensation received

```
signingBonus =  
upFront(cash)    x   clawbackTerms((cash)  
+  upFront(perks)        x     clawbackTerms(perks)  
+  upFront(equity)      x      vesting(time)

lifeTimeComp    =    signingBonus + contractLifeTimeComp

contractLifeTimeComp(aCT)  =    rateBased(aCT)   x    eventBased(incentiveCompEvents)

annualIncomeAccreted   = lifeTimeComp / aCT
```

where:

```
"aCT" :  Actual Contract Tenure
//=>   actual contract tenure = average amount of time after contract signing and before contract renegotiation/termination -->

"eCL" :  Expected Contract Life-Time
//=>   expected total amount of time (denominated in fiscal periods) expected to occur under stated contract terms

"CtLTV"  : Contract Lifetime Value
contributionValue	 =>  rateBased(CtLT)   x    eventBased(events) 	

"FY"  :   Fiscal Year  
FY =  1 year  =  4 quarters = 12 months =  52 weeks = 365 days = 2080 business hours = 8,760 gross hours
//=> the company’s annual fiscal period

"FQ"  :  Fiscal Quarter
FQ	= 3 months = 13 weeks =  91 days = 520 business hours

"FbU" : Fiscal base Unit  
FbU = 1 net hour of time allocated to work-related activities
//=> company’s base unit for any given time period

```




While this categorization methodology could be considered comprehensive in respect to quantified compensation, it does not factor in generally unquantified factors of genuine material value such as:
- work output generated by employee is of meaningful contribution
- workplace culture and interpersonal dynamics
- organizational structure
- autonomy and personal agency
- work station ergonomics
